Since I was little, the visuals of 3D computer generated movies have always fascinated me.
In 2012, my parents took me to the movie theater to watch the premier of Cars 2. While the story left much to be desired, the visuals stunned me as a child. As we returned home, I wondered what I needed to replicate such visuals. The topic of Image rendering has evolved over the years, starting with a simple render of a teapot in 1975 that required a supercomputer to today’s films that can be rendered on a modern consumer computer. While, at the time, our family computer was not as powerful to generate an entire short film, I was able to produce some simple works of art. Although none of the renders I produced during this period matched the visual quality of Cars 2, I would spend more time improving my techniques.
Similar to how a child combines different LEGO Bricks for their creations, I obtained 3D models of low polygonal count in order to make my first pieces. I started on a program called Blender, and still use it to this day. My first render revolved around a running Knuckles, a Sonic character, on a Sonic The Hedgehog (06) stage, Crisis City. Rather than using faster, approximate rendering, I chose the much more computationally expensive and time consuming ray tracing. In order to speed up the process, I used a low resolution of 720p. 30 minutes later, the render was completed. My following renders incorporated more Sonic character models as well as some Mario character models. As the computer’s fans screeched for each render, I patiently waited for it to finish. Eventually, I felt like rendering a scene in 8K, and despite the estimated time skyrocketing to 2 days, I was fine with the trade off
My progress with Blender slowed down until the pandemic arrived, for it provided ample time to work on more of these types of projects. However, I was not satisfied with mere still images. I wanted to work on more complex projects. One of these projects was animation. In order to teach myself animation, I started off by applying a Fortnite dance onto a character in Blender. However, once I applied the animation, not everything was working as it was supposed to. As I was determined to improve upon the existing animation, I put in extra effort to add my own touches to it. I created additional facial animations to go alongside the dance. Following that project, I would do more Fortnite related works, each one getting more visually complex as I mastered more Blender techniques. After a number of Fortnite related projects, I felt inclined to do something that felt more relevant to me.
Over the years, I made frequent visits to Peru, my parents’ home country. With the streets of Lima, the capital, a contrast to my usual suburban surroundings, I would develop an obsession for the many things that made up the street. One of these streets I remember fondly of is Av. Tomas Marsano as it was the street that we stayed on whenever we visited. I started off by recreating a base variant of the street light. Since I wanted to make it a detailed model, I opted to model each of the LED lights, and as a result, the model consisted of 448,724 tris. However, whenever I did not need such a detailed model, I used one that only consisted of 53,972 tris for improved performance. As I was determined to increase my prop collection, I recreated some street lamps as well as the overground metro line that runs over the avenue. Once I had completed the props, I utilized them to create multiple scenes, some of which  replicated the streets and others were from my imagination.
However, I could not learn these concepts on my own. While I had no-one to teach me Blender, I resorted to video tutorials as a guide on how to utilize certain techniques. Whenever I needed further, more individual feedback on a piece, however, I resorted to the Blender Reddit community as many of its members have more knowledge about the program. If it weren’t for these resources, I would have not been able to pursue my passion in 3D art.
